README.md, before:

# paddy-disease-detection-and-analysis-with-image-processing
The studies of plant trait/disease refer to the studies of visually observable patterns of a particular plant. Nowadays  crops face many traits/diseases. Damage of the insect is one of the major trait/disease. Insecticides are not always  proved efficient because insecticides may be toxic to some kind of birds. It also damages natural animal food chains.  A common practice for plant scientists is to estimate the damage of plant (leaf, stem) because of disease by an eye  on a scale based on percentage of affected area. It results in subjectivity and low throughput. This paper provides a  advances in various methods used to study plant diseases/traits using image processing. The methods studied are for  increasing throughput &amp; reducing subjectiveness arising from human experts in detecting the plant diseases.


**Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering**

**Khulna University of Engineering & Technology**

## Member 1:
Name : Md. Jahirul Islam

Roll : 1307035

## Member 2:
Name : Protap Chandra Ghose

Roll : 1307046





## Supervisor
Dr. Md. S. K. Masudul Ahsan

Professor

Dept. of CSE, KUET

Commit message:

added the presentation file and publish report v2.0
the final presentation file of thesis defence added
the final version of report version 2.0 is published
also added Abstract on readme files

README.md, after:

# paddy-disease-detection-and-analysis-with-image-processing
The studies of plant trait/disease refer to the studies of visually observable patterns of a particular plant. Nowadays  crops face many traits/diseases. Damage of the insect is one of the major trait/disease. Insecticides are not always  proved efficient because insecticides may be toxic to some kind of birds. It also damages natural animal food chains.  A common practice for plant scientists is to estimate the damage of plant (leaf, stem) because of disease by an eye  on a scale based on percentage of affected area. It results in subjectivity and low throughput. This paper provides a  advances in various methods used to study plant diseases/traits using image processing. The methods studied are for  increasing throughput &amp; reducing subjectiveness arising from human experts in detecting the plant diseases.

## Abstract
Being an agricultural country, most of the people of Bangladesh are dependent on agriculture directly or indirectly. It is the fourth largest rice producing country in the world. Main hindrance in rice production is paddy diseases. So in this research the main objective is to develop a prototype system for detecting the paddy diseases, which are Paddy Blast, Brown Spot and Narrow Brown Spot diseases. This concentrate on the image processing techniques used to find pattern in the image and artificial neural network technique to classify the diseases. The methodology involves image collection, image processing, feature extraction and classification. Features are extracted from the images using Haralick’s texture feature from color co-occurrence matrix. Then an artificial neural network is trained by these features and a trained model is found. In testing phase, all paddy samples are passed through the leaf color analysis to detect the normal paddy leaf image. If the sample passes leaf color analysis, then it is automatically classified as Normal Paddy leaf image. Otherwise, all the segmented paddy disease samples are converted into the features data and is passed through the artificial neural network. Consequently, by employing the artificial neural network technique, the paddy diseases are recognized. The accuracy to detect diseases of this model is good enough to use in practical life.

**Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering**

**Khulna University of Engineering & Technology**

## Member 1:
Name : Md. Jahirul Islam

Roll : 1307035

## Member 2:
Name : Protap Chandra Ghose

Roll : 1307046





## Supervisor
Dr. Md. S. K. Masudul Ahsan

Professor

Dept. of CSE, KUET
